tests/machine/x/scala/README.md, before:

# Scala Machine Translations

This directory contains Scala code generated from the Mochi programs in `tests/vm/valid` using the Scala compiler. Each program was compiled with `scalac`. Successful runs produced an `.out` file while failures produced an `.error` file. The compiler now infers element types for lists and maps to generate type-safe collections.

Compiled programs: 97/97
Executed successfully: 77/97

## Program checklist
- [x] append_builtin.mochi
- [x] avg_builtin.mochi
- [x] basic_compare.mochi
- [x] binary_precedence.mochi
- [x] bool_chain.mochi
- [x] break_continue.mochi
- [x] cast_string_to_int.mochi
- [x] cast_struct.mochi
- [x] closure.mochi
- [x] count_builtin.mochi
- [x] cross_join.mochi
- [x] cross_join_filter.mochi
- [x] cross_join_triple.mochi
- [x] dataset_sort_take_limit.mochi
- [x] dataset_where_filter.mochi
- [x] exists_builtin.mochi
- [x] for_list_collection.mochi
- [x] for_loop.mochi
- [x] for_map_collection.mochi
- [x] fun_call.mochi
- [x] fun_expr_in_let.mochi
- [x] fun_three_args.mochi
 - [x] group_by.mochi
- [ ] group_by_conditional_sum.mochi
- [ ] group_by_having.mochi
- [ ] group_by_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_left_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_multi_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_multi_join_sort.mochi
- [ ] group_by_sort.mochi
- [ ] group_items_iteration.mochi
- [x] if_else.mochi
- [x] if_then_else.mochi
- [x] if_then_else_nested.mochi
- [x] in_operator.mochi
- [x] in_operator_extended.mochi
- [ ] inner_join.mochi
- [ ] join_multi.mochi
- [x] json_builtin.mochi
- [ ] left_join.mochi
- [ ] left_join_multi.mochi
- [x] len_builtin.mochi
- [x] len_map.mochi
- [x] len_string.mochi
- [x] let_and_print.mochi
- [x] list_assign.mochi
- [x] list_index.mochi
- [x] list_nested_assign.mochi
- [x] list_set_ops.mochi
- [ ] load_yaml.mochi
- [x] map_assign.mochi
- [x] map_in_operator.mochi
- [x] map_index.mochi
- [x] map_int_key.mochi
- [x] map_literal_dynamic.mochi
- [x] map_membership.mochi
- [x] map_nested_assign.mochi
- [x] match_expr.mochi
- [x] match_full.mochi
- [x] math_ops.mochi
- [x] membership.mochi
- [x] min_max_builtin.mochi
- [x] nested_function.mochi
- [x] order_by_map.mochi
- [ ] outer_join.mochi
- [x] partial_application.mochi
- [x] print_hello.mochi
- [x] pure_fold.mochi
- [x] pure_global_fold.mochi
- [ ] query_sum_select.mochi
- [x] record_assign.mochi
- [ ] right_join.mochi
- [ ] save_jsonl_stdout.mochi
- [x] short_circuit.mochi
- [x] slice.mochi
- [ ] sort_stable.mochi
- [x] str_builtin.mochi
- [x] string_compare.mochi
- [x] string_concat.mochi
- [x] string_contains.mochi
- [x] string_in_operator.mochi
- [x] string_index.mochi
- [x] string_prefix_slice.mochi
- [x] substring_builtin.mochi
- [x] sum_builtin.mochi
- [x] tail_recursion.mochi
- [x] test_block.mochi
- [x] tree_sum.mochi
- [ ] two-sum.mochi
- [x] typed_let.mochi
- [x] typed_var.mochi
- [x] unary_neg.mochi
- [x] update_stmt.mochi
- [x] user_type_literal.mochi
- [x] values_builtin.mochi
- [x] var_assignment.mochi
- [x] while_loop.mochi

## Remaining Tasks
- Finish full query join support
- Improve `load`/`save` expression handling
- Refine case class generation for complex queries

Commit message:

scala: improve query struct inference

tests/machine/x/scala/README.md, after:

# Scala Machine Translations

This directory contains Scala code generated from the Mochi programs in `tests/vm/valid` using the Scala compiler. Each program was compiled with `scalac`. Successful runs produced an `.out` file while failures produced an `.error` file. The compiler now infers element types for lists and maps and can derive case classes from query `select` clauses to generate type-safe collections.

Compiled programs: 97/97
Executed successfully: 77/97

## Program checklist
- [x] append_builtin.mochi
- [x] avg_builtin.mochi
- [x] basic_compare.mochi
- [x] binary_precedence.mochi
- [x] bool_chain.mochi
- [x] break_continue.mochi
- [x] cast_string_to_int.mochi
- [x] cast_struct.mochi
- [x] closure.mochi
- [x] count_builtin.mochi
- [x] cross_join.mochi
- [x] cross_join_filter.mochi
- [x] cross_join_triple.mochi
- [x] dataset_sort_take_limit.mochi
- [x] dataset_where_filter.mochi
- [x] exists_builtin.mochi
- [x] for_list_collection.mochi
- [x] for_loop.mochi
- [x] for_map_collection.mochi
- [x] fun_call.mochi
- [x] fun_expr_in_let.mochi
- [x] fun_three_args.mochi
 - [x] group_by.mochi
- [ ] group_by_conditional_sum.mochi
- [ ] group_by_having.mochi
- [ ] group_by_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_left_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_multi_join.mochi
- [ ] group_by_multi_join_sort.mochi
- [ ] group_by_sort.mochi
- [ ] group_items_iteration.mochi
- [x] if_else.mochi
- [x] if_then_else.mochi
- [x] if_then_else_nested.mochi
- [x] in_operator.mochi
- [x] in_operator_extended.mochi
- [ ] inner_join.mochi
- [ ] join_multi.mochi
- [x] json_builtin.mochi
- [ ] left_join.mochi
- [ ] left_join_multi.mochi
- [x] len_builtin.mochi
- [x] len_map.mochi
- [x] len_string.mochi
- [x] let_and_print.mochi
- [x] list_assign.mochi
- [x] list_index.mochi
- [x] list_nested_assign.mochi
- [x] list_set_ops.mochi
- [ ] load_yaml.mochi
- [x] map_assign.mochi
- [x] map_in_operator.mochi
- [x] map_index.mochi
- [x] map_int_key.mochi
- [x] map_literal_dynamic.mochi
- [x] map_membership.mochi
- [x] map_nested_assign.mochi
- [x] match_expr.mochi
- [x] match_full.mochi
- [x] math_ops.mochi
- [x] membership.mochi
- [x] min_max_builtin.mochi
- [x] nested_function.mochi
- [x] order_by_map.mochi
- [ ] outer_join.mochi
- [x] partial_application.mochi
- [x] print_hello.mochi
- [x] pure_fold.mochi
- [x] pure_global_fold.mochi
- [ ] query_sum_select.mochi
- [x] record_assign.mochi
- [ ] right_join.mochi
- [ ] save_jsonl_stdout.mochi
- [x] short_circuit.mochi
- [x] slice.mochi
- [ ] sort_stable.mochi
- [x] str_builtin.mochi
- [x] string_compare.mochi
- [x] string_concat.mochi
- [x] string_contains.mochi
- [x] string_in_operator.mochi
- [x] string_index.mochi
- [x] string_prefix_slice.mochi
- [x] substring_builtin.mochi
- [x] sum_builtin.mochi
- [x] tail_recursion.mochi
- [x] test_block.mochi
- [x] tree_sum.mochi
- [ ] two-sum.mochi
- [x] typed_let.mochi
- [x] typed_var.mochi
- [x] unary_neg.mochi
- [x] update_stmt.mochi
- [x] user_type_literal.mochi
- [x] values_builtin.mochi
- [x] var_assignment.mochi
- [x] while_loop.mochi

## Remaining Tasks
- Finish full query join support
- Improve `load`/`save` expression handling
- Refine case class generation for complex queries
