tests/machine/x/pascal/README.md, before:

# Generated Pascal Programs

This directory contains Pascal source code and outputs generated by the compiler tests. Each Mochi program from `tests/vm/valid` is compiled to a `.pas` file. Successful runs have a corresponding `.out` file. If compilation or execution fails, an `.error` file is written.

Compiled programs: 61/100

Checklist:

- [x] append_builtin
- [x] avg_builtin
- [x] basic_compare
- [x] binary_precedence
- [x] bool_chain
- [x] break_continue
- [x] cast_string_to_int
- [x] cast_struct
- [ ] closure
- [x] count_builtin
- [x] cross_join
- [x] cross_join_filter
- [x] cross_join_triple
- [x] dataset_sort_take_limit
- [ ] dataset_where_filter
- [x] exists_builtin
- [x] for_list_collection
- [x] for_loop
- [ ] for_map_collection
- [x] fun_call
- [x] fun_expr_in_let
- [x] fun_three_args
- [ ] go_auto
- [ ] group_by
- [ ] group_by_conditional_sum
- [ ] group_by_having
- [ ] group_by_join
- [ ] group_by_left_join
- [ ] group_by_multi_join
- [ ] group_by_multi_join_sort
- [ ] group_by_sort
- [ ] group_items_iteration
- [x] if_else
- [x] if_then_else
- [x] if_then_else_nested
- [x] in_operator
- [x] in_operator_extended
- [ ] inner_join
- [ ] join_multi
- [x] json_builtin
- [ ] left_join
- [ ] left_join_multi
- [x] len_builtin
- [x] len_map
- [x] len_string
- [x] let_and_print
- [x] list_assign
- [x] list_index
- [ ] list_nested_assign
- [x] list_set_ops
- [ ] load_yaml
- [x] map_assign
- [x] map_in_operator
- [x] map_index
- [x] map_int_key
- [x] map_literal_dynamic
- [x] map_membership
- [x] map_nested_assign
- [ ] match_expr
- [ ] match_full
- [x] math_ops
- [x] membership
- [ ] min_max_builtin
- [ ] nested_function
- [ ] order_by_map
- [ ] outer_join
- [ ] partial_application
- [x] print_hello
- [x] pure_fold
- [ ] pure_global_fold
- [ ] python_auto
- [ ] python_math
- [ ] query_sum_select
- [ ] record_assign
- [ ] right_join
- [ ] save_jsonl_stdout
- [x] short_circuit
- [x] slice
- [x] sort_stable
- [x] str_builtin
- [x] string_compare
- [x] string_concat
- [ ] string_contains
- [x] string_in_operator
- [x] string_index
- [x] string_prefix_slice
- [x] substring_builtin
- [x] sum_builtin
- [ ] tail_recursion
- [x] test_block
- [ ] tree_sum
- [ ] two-sum
- [x] typed_let
- [x] typed_var
- [x] unary_neg
- [ ] update_stmt
- [x] user_type_literal
- [ ] values_builtin
- [x] var_assignment
- [x] while_loop

## Remaining Tasks
- [ ] Support cross join queries with structs
- [ ] Implement dataset_where_filter for maps
- [ ] Add map assignment for nested structures
- [ ] Support group_by aggregations
- [ ] Implement left and right join operations
- [ ] Implement pattern matching constructs
- [ ] Add YAML loading support
- [ ] Implement nested function handling
- [ ] Support update statements for records
- [ ] Provide values_builtin translation

Commit message:

pascal: improve if expression and map loop handling

tests/machine/x/pascal/README.md, after:

# Generated Pascal Programs

This directory contains Pascal source code and outputs generated by the compiler tests. Each Mochi program from `tests/vm/valid` is compiled to a `.pas` file. Successful runs have a corresponding `.out` file. If compilation or execution fails, an `.error` file is written.

Compiled programs: 63/100

Checklist:

- [x] append_builtin
- [x] avg_builtin
- [x] basic_compare
- [x] binary_precedence
- [x] bool_chain
- [x] break_continue
- [x] cast_string_to_int
- [x] cast_struct
- [ ] closure
- [x] count_builtin
- [x] cross_join
- [x] cross_join_filter
- [x] cross_join_triple
- [x] dataset_sort_take_limit
- [x] dataset_where_filter
- [x] exists_builtin
- [x] for_list_collection
- [x] for_loop
- [x] for_map_collection
- [x] fun_call
- [x] fun_expr_in_let
- [x] fun_three_args
- [ ] go_auto
- [ ] group_by
- [ ] group_by_conditional_sum
- [ ] group_by_having
- [ ] group_by_join
- [ ] group_by_left_join
- [ ] group_by_multi_join
- [ ] group_by_multi_join_sort
- [ ] group_by_sort
- [ ] group_items_iteration
- [x] if_else
- [x] if_then_else
- [x] if_then_else_nested
- [x] in_operator
- [x] in_operator_extended
- [ ] inner_join
- [ ] join_multi
- [x] json_builtin
- [ ] left_join
- [ ] left_join_multi
- [x] len_builtin
- [x] len_map
- [x] len_string
- [x] let_and_print
- [x] list_assign
- [x] list_index
- [ ] list_nested_assign
- [x] list_set_ops
- [ ] load_yaml
- [x] map_assign
- [x] map_in_operator
- [x] map_index
- [x] map_int_key
- [x] map_literal_dynamic
- [x] map_membership
- [x] map_nested_assign
- [ ] match_expr
- [ ] match_full
- [x] math_ops
- [x] membership
- [ ] min_max_builtin
- [ ] nested_function
- [ ] order_by_map
- [ ] outer_join
- [ ] partial_application
- [x] print_hello
- [x] pure_fold
- [ ] pure_global_fold
- [ ] python_auto
- [ ] python_math
- [ ] query_sum_select
- [ ] record_assign
- [ ] right_join
- [ ] save_jsonl_stdout
- [x] short_circuit
- [x] slice
- [x] sort_stable
- [x] str_builtin
- [x] string_compare
- [x] string_concat
- [ ] string_contains
- [x] string_in_operator
- [x] string_index
- [x] string_prefix_slice
- [x] substring_builtin
- [x] sum_builtin
- [ ] tail_recursion
- [x] test_block
- [ ] tree_sum
- [ ] two-sum
- [x] typed_let
- [x] typed_var
- [x] unary_neg
- [ ] update_stmt
- [x] user_type_literal
- [ ] values_builtin
- [x] var_assignment
- [x] while_loop

## Remaining Tasks
- [ ] Support cross join queries with structs
- [ ] Implement dataset_where_filter for maps
- [ ] Add map assignment for nested structures
- [ ] Support group_by aggregations
- [ ] Implement left and right join operations
- [ ] Implement pattern matching constructs
- [ ] Add YAML loading support
- [ ] Implement nested function handling
- [ ] Support update statements for records
- [ ] Provide values_builtin translation
- [ ] Improve closure support for nested functions
- [ ] Provide runtime checks for index out of range
- [ ] Add support for generics in functions
- [ ] Implement constant folding optimization
- [ ] Extend map literal syntax with expressions
- [ ] Add built-in JSON parsing library
- [ ] Provide standard math library wrappers
- [ ] Allow optional typing in variable declarations
- [ ] Add array slicing for dynamic arrays
- [ ] Support asynchronous HTTP requests
