tests/machine/x/python/README.md, before:

# Python Machine Output

This directory contains Python source code generated from Mochi programs and the corresponding outputs or errors.

## Summary

- 93/97 programs compiled and executed successfully.
- 4 programs failed to compile or run.

### Successful
- append_builtin
- avg_builtin
- basic_compare
- binary_precedence
- bool_chain
- break_continue
- cast_string_to_int
- cast_struct
- closure
- count_builtin
- cross_join
- cross_join_filter
- cross_join_triple
- dataset_sort_take_limit
- dataset_where_filter
- exists_builtin
- for_list_collection
- for_loop
- for_map_collection
- fun_call
- fun_expr_in_let
- fun_three_args
- if_else
- if_then_else
- if_then_else_nested
- in_operator
- in_operator_extended
- json_builtin
- len_builtin
- len_map
- len_string
- let_and_print
- list_assign
- list_index
- list_nested_assign
- list_set_ops
- map_assign
- map_in_operator
- map_index
- map_int_key
- map_literal_dynamic
- map_membership
- map_nested_assign
- match_expr
- match_full
- math_ops
- membership
- min_max_builtin
- nested_function
- order_by_map
- group_by
- group_by_conditional_sum
- group_by_having
- group_by_join
- group_by_multi_join
- group_by_multi_join_sort
- group_by_sort
- inner_join
- join_multi
- left_join
- left_join_multi
- outer_join
- right_join
- partial_application
- print_hello
- pure_fold
- pure_global_fold
- record_assign
- save_jsonl_stdout
- short_circuit
- slice
- sort_stable
- str_builtin
- string_compare
- string_concat
- string_contains
- string_in_operator
- string_index
- string_prefix_slice
- substring_builtin
- sum_builtin
- tail_recursion
- test_block
- two-sum
- typed_let
- typed_var
- unary_neg
- update_stmt
- user_type_literal
- values_builtin
- var_assignment
- while_loop
- tree_sum

### Failed
- group_by_left_join
- group_items_iteration
- load_yaml
- query_sum_select

Commit message:

py compiler: emit loops for inner joins

tests/machine/x/python/README.md, after:

# Python Machine Output

This directory contains Python source code generated from Mochi programs and the corresponding outputs or errors.

## Summary

- 93/97 programs compiled and executed successfully.
- 4 programs failed to compile or run.

Generated join queries such as `inner_join` and `join_multi` now use
native Python loops instead of the generic `_query` helper for more
readable output.

### Successful
- append_builtin
- avg_builtin
- basic_compare
- binary_precedence
- bool_chain
- break_continue
- cast_string_to_int
- cast_struct
- closure
- count_builtin
- cross_join
- cross_join_filter
- cross_join_triple
- dataset_sort_take_limit
- dataset_where_filter
- exists_builtin
- for_list_collection
- for_loop
- for_map_collection
- fun_call
- fun_expr_in_let
- fun_three_args
- if_else
- if_then_else
- if_then_else_nested
- in_operator
- in_operator_extended
- json_builtin
- len_builtin
- len_map
- len_string
- let_and_print
- list_assign
- list_index
- list_nested_assign
- list_set_ops
- map_assign
- map_in_operator
- map_index
- map_int_key
- map_literal_dynamic
- map_membership
- map_nested_assign
- match_expr
- match_full
- math_ops
- membership
- min_max_builtin
- nested_function
- order_by_map
- group_by
- group_by_conditional_sum
- group_by_having
- group_by_join
- group_by_multi_join
- group_by_multi_join_sort
- group_by_sort
- inner_join
- join_multi
- left_join
- left_join_multi
- outer_join
- right_join
- partial_application
- print_hello
- pure_fold
- pure_global_fold
- record_assign
- save_jsonl_stdout
- short_circuit
- slice
- sort_stable
- str_builtin
- string_compare
- string_concat
- string_contains
- string_in_operator
- string_index
- string_prefix_slice
- substring_builtin
- sum_builtin
- tail_recursion
- test_block
- two-sum
- typed_let
- typed_var
- unary_neg
- update_stmt
- user_type_literal
- values_builtin
- var_assignment
- while_loop
- tree_sum

### Failed
- group_by_left_join
- group_items_iteration
- load_yaml
- query_sum_select
